# Design and UX
## Introduction
- User Experience is really about focusing on three things – can the user get done what they are trying to do effectively, efficiently, and with satisfaction.
- It starts with making your site fast and reliable. Then you need to properly set up the structure and information architecture of the page so users have a logical schema for navigation. Then you will build your user interfaces for optimal user experience. Only then, finally, can you worry about aesthetics.
### [Startups, this is how design works.](https://startupsthisishowdesignworks.com/)
- Design is a method for problem solving. Good design seem "undesigned", because they are so obvious and effective. Good design is often as little design as possible, yet makes the product understandable, useful, unobtrusive, long-lasting, thorough, aesthetic, honest and innovative.
- Good design is key for creating products that customers will love.
### [UX 101](https://web.archive.org/web/20190825035454/https://www.homestead.com/blog/06/2013/ux-101-what-user-experience-infographic#.XWIGlVkRc2w)
- Good UX optimizes customer experience so that they reach their goal more fluidly. It helps avoid the creation of unnecessary problems that developers/support have to solve.
- Are customers every confused? If so, this is probably a UX issue. Ask yourself how the information architecture can be better organized.
### [What is UX?](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/10/what-is-user-experience-design-overview-tools-and-resources/)
- User experience (abbreviated as UX) is how a person feels when interfacing with a system. 
- “Does this website give me value? Is it easy to use? Is it pleasant to use?” These are the questions that run through the minds of visitors as they interact with our products, and they form the basis of their decisions on whether to become regular users. User experience design is all about striving to make them answer “Yes” to all of those questions. 
- Before user-centered design, people just designed websites based on what they thought worked. There was no science or methodology behind design choices. The feelings of users was not considered. It was based on the demands of the client, rather than the best possible experience for the end user.
- Systems that involve a myriad of user tasks must be perceived as being valuable, pleasant and efficient. In this case it is worth doing a multi-member study on the UX.
- Usability is about the user-friendliness and efficiency of the interface. Usability is big part of the user experience and plays a major role in experiences that are effective and pleasant, but then human factors science, psychology, information architecture and user-centered design principles also play major roles.
- UX design efficacy is hard to measure using analytics alone. Instead, we have to tease out the results indirectly by analyzing revenue levels, page views, before-and-after surveys of users and the like. Less quantitative, more qualitative.
- surveys and A/B testing can test UX hypotheses.
### [Visual Hierarchy](https://52weeksofux.com/post/443828775/visual-hierarchy)
- Visual hierarchy suggests there is a proper way to view content visually: in a hierarchical way. In other words, there is a pecking order to things…some content should be viewed first, some second, some third, and on down the line. The most important content is at the top of the hierarchy. It’s the visual element you look at first, which then directs you to what to look at next. 
- Just like a great writer starts with a interesting lead that sends you breathlessly into the next paragraph, a thoughtful designer will efficiently move the viewer from one piece of content to the next. And just as a writer wouldn’t put the climax of their story at the beginning you wouldn’t put the call to action button at top of a landing page. That would leave the user with no context about why they should take that action. In this way you use hierarchy to tell a story, to provide context that culminates in the action being taken.
- The best visual hierarchies lead users to take the action confidently. They have a clear, obvious order in which to view and act on things, with the most important things first. If you’re creating a sign-up screen, for example, the hierarchy might be made up of a catchy headline, some supporting motivational copy (perhaps features & benefits of using the service), a signup form, and a submit button.
- Weak hierarchies, on the other hand, don’t set appropriate context. They may leave out something important, they may frame their topic incorrectly, or they may place design elements in the wrong order. Weak hierarchies fail to organize information in a helpful way and leave users without a clear idea of what to do or read next.
### CRAP Design Principles
- Contrast, Repetition, Alignment, Proximity
- Contrast is what we notice, and it’s what gives a design its energy. So you should make elements that are not the same clearly different, not just slightly different. 
    - You can achieve contrast in many ways—for example, through the manipulation of space (near and far, empty and filled), through color choices (dark and light, cool and warm), by text selection (serif and sans serif, bold and narrow), by positioning of elements (top and bottom, isolated and grouped), and so on. 
- Repetition of certain design elements in a slide or among a deck of slides will bring a clear sense of unity, consistency, and cohesiveness.
- Most of  templates have been seen many times before so it may be too repetitive and boring for the user. Elements shouldn't be exactly the same every time, they should have subtle unique changes to stay fresh and human.
-  Alignment is about obtaining unity among elements of a single slide. Even elements that are quite far apart on a slide should have a visual connection. The audience may not be conscious of it, but slides that contain elements in alignment look cleaner. And assuming other principles are applied harmoniously as well, your slides should be easier to understand quickly.
- The principle of proximity is about moving things closer or farther apart to achieve a more organized look. The principle says that related items should be grouped together so that they will be viewed as a group, rather than as several unrelated elements. Audiences will assume that items that are not near each other in a design are not closely related. Audiences will naturally tend to group similar items that are near to each other into a single unit. 
    - People should never have to “work” at trying to figure out which caption goes with which graphic or whether or not a line of text is a subtitle or a line of text unrelated to the title. Do not make audiences think.
    - we must be conscious of where our eye goes first when we step back and look at our design. When you look at your slide, notice where your eye is drawn first, second, and so on. What path does your eye take?
